# what a destructor is

In C++, a destructor is a special member function of a class that is executed automatically when an object of that class is destroyed. The destructor is responsible for releasing any resources that the object may have acquired during its lifetime, such as memory, file handles, or network connections.

The destructor has the same name as the class, but with a tilde (~) prefix, and it takes no arguments and has no return type. Here's an example:
```cpp
class MyClass {
public:
    MyClass() {
        // constructor code
    }
    ~MyClass() {
        // destructor code
    }
};
```
In this example, the `MyClass` class has a constructor and a destructor. The destructor is executed automatically when an object of `MyClass` is destroyed, either because it goes out of scope or because it is explicitly deleted using the `delete` operator.

Here's an example of how the destructor might be used to release resources:
```cpp
class FileHandler {
public:
    FileHandler(const std::string& filename) {
        file = fopen(filename.c_str(), "r");
    }
    ~FileHandler() {
        if (file != nullptr) {
            fclose(file);
        }
    }
    // other member functions...
private:
    FILE* file;
};
```
In this example, the `FileHandler` class has a constructor that opens a file using the `fopen()` function from the C standard library, and a destructor that closes the file using the `fclose()` function. The destructor checks whether the `file` pointer is non-null before calling `fclose()`, to avoid closing a file that was never opened.

When an object of `FileHandler` is destroyed, either because it goes out of scope or because it is explicitly deleted, the destructor is called automatically, and the file is closed. This ensures that any resources acquired by the object are released properly, even if the program terminates unexpectedly.

It's important to note that destructors are only called for objects that are created dynamically using the `new` operator, or automatically as local variables. If you create an object using the `new` operator, you are responsible for deleting it using the `delete` operator when you are done with it, to avoid memory leaks. If you create an object as a local variable, it will be destroyed automatically when it goes out of scope.

# what will happen if i did not declare a destructor 

If you do not declare a destructor for a class in C++, the compiler will automatically generate a default destructor for you. The default destructor will perform the default cleanup for any member variables that have destructors, and it will release any resources that the object may have acquired during its lifetime.

However, if your class has dynamically allocated resources, such as memory allocated using `new`, file handles, or network connections, then you should define a destructor to release those resources explicitly. If you do not define a destructor in this case, the resources will not be released properly, and you may end up with memory leaks, file handle leaks, or other resource leaks.

Here's an example:
```csharp
class MyClass {
public:
    MyClass() {
        data = new int[10];
    }
    // other member functions...
private:
    int* data;
};
```
In this example, the `MyClass` class has a constructor that allocates an array of 10 integers using `new`. However, the class does not have a destructor to release the memory allocated by the constructor. If you create an object of `MyClass` and then delete it without releasing the memory, you will end up with a memory leak.

To avoid this problem, you should define a destructor that releases the memory allocated by the constructor:
```csharp
class MyClass {
public:
    MyClass() {
        data = new int[10];
    }
    ~MyClass() {
        delete[] data;
    }
    // other member functions...
private:
    int* data;
};
```
In this updated example, the `MyClass` class has a destructor that releases the memory allocated by the constructor using the `delete[]` operator. Now, when an object of `MyClass` is destroyed, either because it goes out of scope or because it is explicitly deleted, the destructor will be called automatically, and the memory will be released properly.

In summary, if your class has dynamically allocated resources, you should define a destructor to release those resources explicitly. If your class does not have any dynamically allocated resources, the default destructor generated by the compiler will be sufficient. (See [[dynamic memory allocation]])